From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes. Oh, weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number three
60 recorded live Thursday, February 28th, 2013.
Support for Hanselman is this
provided by Tellerik offering the
best in developer tools and
support online@telerik.com and by Franklin
stock net training developers to
work smarter and now offering
gesture pack a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details@gesturepak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with dwell and Falco
about his approval tests, open
source project. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'm here at agile
open Northwest in Portland. Oregon
just came over from a
lovely lunch and all sorts
of agile luminaries and really
cool people in there. But
now I'm sitting here with
you, Llewellyn, Falco. How are
you, sir? I'm doing great.
Good to be here. Now
you've got a project called
approval tests. Yes, people can
go out and Google for
it and find that it's
up on GitHub and you've
got lots of videos and
you've actually got a little
course where series about approval
tests on YouTube. Why should
I care about approval tests?
Well, why should you care
about approval tests or why
should you care about testing
at all? Well, that's a
good question. Let's start with
your project and we'll get
into why I should care
about testing at all. So
if you care about testing,
you'll run up against things
that are harder to test.
And that I find personally
that when I have something
that's harder to do, I
tend to do it less.
And so there's that sort
of natural feed and approval
test will make things easier
for you to test. And
that means you will do
it more. And, you know,
I think sort of a
tenant of programming is let's
be lazy. Yeah, exactly. The
best programmers are the laziest.
Exactly. So I know that
just setting up unit tests
can be frustrating and there's
X unit and unit and
ms. Test and lots of
different things to choose from.
But then there's also integration
tests and people are always
asking about like selenium for
browser testing or different testing
things. Leash do informs. Then
there's things like BDD behavior
driven testing and there's spec
flow and cucumber even deciding
on a test framework can
itself be a little bit
difficult and confusing a lot
to choose from really. And
I think in the.net world,
we have more choices than
many other places. So it
just adds more to the,
to that upfront decision. So
if I buy into approval
test, which is your framework,
is that something that is
going to work with an
existing framework I have, or
am I going to layer
your stuff on top of,
and it's just, you're going
to layer underneath. Yeah. Underneath.
Yeah. So I have a
very big, I hate making
that choice myself and there's
all these great tools that
are already out there supporting
these other frameworks. And so
I, you know, in the
spirit of being lazy, I
wanted to keep using all
those things for me. And
so we are just a
deal that sits underneath that
gives you a more powerful
way of doing an assert.
Okay. Interesting. So rather than
wrapping existing things or sitting
on top of, or buying
into, which I think some
other frameworks Yeah. When those
frameworks work that way, right?
Like, like some of the
BDD things, it's like, you
know, they'll shout test this
way. So I'm going to
test the same way I
tested before. But then when
things get complicated for an
assert, like for example, if
I wanted to assert the
output of a certain array,
let's say I've got an
array of a hundred things.
And I want to say,
did this look exactly as
I expect? And that's something
that asserts were never meant
to do well. And part
of the skill of unit
testing was a figuring out,
how do I test that
array? But actually you'll see
if you sit with a
lot of the people who
do unit testing a lot,
their skill was figuring out
how do I write a
test that doesn't need a
hundred things, but will give
me the results. And that
takes a lot of effort.
And what I found is
once I was able to,
you know, verify a hundred
Ray array, I had to
do a lot less work
to just write a regular
unit test. And I could
write unit tests that were
closer to what my customers
were thinking closer to what
I was thinking. Interesting. So
I'm hearing you say that
that purist of unit testing
might not appreciate some of
the things that we're trying
to test. Like you're trying
to test that a hundred
things are exactly as they
should be in an array.
What are you doing? You're
doing it wrong well, and
you're making it easy for
me to do it that
way. Exactly. I think any
time that you spend effort
to get good at something,
you feel like that effort
should be there. And I
see that in programmers all
the time, especially around stuff
like VI and suffers, like
I have learned to do
this. Why, what do you
mean you're using these shortcuts?
Or what are you using
this visual editor for? Like,
they forget that just because
they put effort in, it
doesn't necessarily mean it has
to be that way. Okay.
So let's say I like
X unit. Can I use
X unit with approval tests?
Absolutely. So whether you call
them assertions, but they, you
know, they, they, the different
unit testing frameworks may not
call them that. But the
essence is the same Essence
is usually the same. And
usually it maps one to
one, whether you use the
word assert or should be
or whatever language it is,
I have a primitive, usually
on one side, matching a
primitive on the other side
and approval tests takes a
very fundamentally different approach to
this. It says, produce your
object. I'm going to show
it to you. And once
you say, it's okay, as
long as you continue to
produce it, I'm going to
pass. And if you fail,
I'm then going to show
you what you used to
have and what you have
now. And I'm going to
give you different tools. One
of the things approval test
does is it opens up
other programs to help you
do that. So if you
do have that long string
of, you know, array of
a hundred, we will open
it up in a text
editor or a dif program
of your choice, right? There's
lots of different options because
everyone has their favorite diff
tool. But the diff tool
then gives you extra information.
So you don't just see
here's a hundred lines of
texts. Here's a hundred lines
of texts. What's different. It
will start highlighting on line
99. You know, we're missing
this line and that can
help you see, you know,
the line is missing. Another
line got added or the
line got changed. All different
things that you don't normally
get from an assert. So
you're saying that this though,
that that's concerning to me,
I think of unit tests
as something that are very
not interactive. Is this something
that I see while I'm
developing the test or while
the test is running on
a headless surface somewhere? So
there's two stages it's interactive
until you get it working.
Once you get it working
it's then non-interactive I see
until it fails, right? So
it can run on a
headless server and just fail.
Right. But when you go
back and you say, why
is this failing? Then it's
going to interact with you
and say, Hey, this is
why it's failing. Okay. So
how do I tell the
system that it is a
headless and shouldn't be popping
dialogue boxes with tortoise diff.
So we use attributes called
reporters, and you can configure
those sort of at multiple
levels. You can configure them
at the method level, use
this reporter. You can configure
them at the class level,
use this reporter and you
can configure them at the
assembly level. And it uses
the method of least surprise.
So if it's a method
it's going to show up
there, it's going to override
the class. If it's on
the class, it's going to
override what's at the assembly
level, but there is also
a in front of things.
So it can detect I'm
on a build server or
I'm on a headless system
and it won't do it.
And does it do that
with a config switch somewhere?
Or how do you know
that I'm going to build
server Approval test knows based
on some of just the
builds servers. Right? So right
now that we use team
city a lot and it
will detect that team city
is running it, conversely, we
use in crunch a lot,
which in crunch will run
every second. As you do
keystrokes, you don't want stuff
popping up all the time.
So it will detect if
in crunches running it, versus
if, if you're running it
through ms. Test and visual
studio interactively. Exactly. And it
will sort of default to
not be interactive if it
doesn't need to in general
approval test uses convention over
configuration. Right. But you can
always go to configuration. You
can always hard put in
if I haven't thought about
your situation or you're doing
something unique. So some testing
frameworks say assert and other
ones say, expect yours uses
this verb verify a lot.
Yeah. And that seems as
generic, a verb, as one
could imagine. I mean, that
just seemed super generic, like
verify, which is like Exactly.
And that's why we ended
up, we actually started with
a prove, which turned out
to be the wrong verb,
but I kept, I'm a
big believer that you will
write better code on multiple
levels. If you write your
intention in English first, that
brain you have that works
in English, that knows how
to tell stories that knows
how to write paragraphs or
choose words is multiple times
order of magnitudes more developed
than our brain that can
think in C-sharp or VB.
Like we just have so
much more value there. So
if you start in English
and then you keep pulling
to code, you'll get cleaner
code, more modular code, just
overall better code. And what
I found I was doing
is I kept saying like,
well, I'm making a triangle
with links three, four, five,
and now I need to
verify that the perimeters. Right.
And then I would translate
it to some other word,
like uproot. And I was
like, why does verify, I'm
saying in English, I want
to verify the perimeter. Why
aren't I just saying in
my code, verify T dot
perimeter. And so that's why
that word came up. So
verify in my mind just
kind of means make sure
it's okay. Exactly. Okay. So
if I've got a method
that, that does, you know,
does some stuff and then
the, the output of that
is an array of a
hundred somethings. Yep. I think
what I would probably do
in a regular unit testing
scenario is assert a bunch
of things. Maybe I would
assert the first five and
get lazy and not do
the rest. How would I
do that with approval test
to assert that this array
of a hundred names is
sorted. Exactly. Exactly. So let's
say that you're doing like
a word count. You put
in a block of text,
it's going to create out
a dictionary. You would just
say approvals dot, verify all,
and then give it the
dictionary. And that would be
it. And what approvals we'll
do is we'll actually sort
the dictionary keys. So it's
consistent, right? Cause there's no
order there's because there's no
order for the way the
keys will come out. Right.
And then it will print
them out as a file.
And you'll see this key
has this value and you'll
see them all. You'll look
at them, you get to
harness a whole bunch of
recognition over intent, which is
really nice. Right. I, I
might not realize exactly that
this word was supposed to
have five, but when I
scroll through, I can recognize
that, Oh yeah, that's the
way it was. And then
you just rename the file
from received to approved and
in a diff tool that
rename has just hit the
right and say, use on
the left side. Okay. So
let me think about this.
If I've got a class
called person test and I've
got a method called sorting
and I worked, you know,
verify sorting or something like
that, you're going to make
a file called person, test
dot, verify, sorting dot, approved,
or received, rather We'll make
the receive file. And then
as soon as you see
what you like, you're going
to rename it to approved.
And after that, as long
as they match Tesla, So
you'll take my data structure
and you're, you're a serializer,
right? You're not doing a
two string on it because
otherwise I'd see system dot
dictionary, prime, whatever. So by
default, we'll do a two
string, but yes, we do
a lot of convenient serializing.
Cause a lot of the
default, two strings in the.net
framework are not very useful.
And now you're going to
serialize it in your own
format. You're going to serialize
it in a format that
makes sense for someone who's
trying to do an approval
test. Exactly. What if I'm,
you know, hardcore Jason or
I really just love Jason.
I really love XML. Can
I make my own serializer?
Okay. Absolutely. Approval tests in
general is very modular. So
you can fit whatever you
want. Serialization. You can actually
put as a step in
front of Collin approval tests
so that you can make
just a convenience file that
says, verify my Jason and
passing your object and format
correctly. XML we already have.
You can put it in
and it will format that
for you using the default
XML, formatters that come with
that. Yeah. Pass. So then
in the future, if I've
got 500 approval tests, am
I going to have 500
reflection created, you know, a
class dot method named dot,
approved dot text files. My,
And you need to check
the profiles into your source
control. Okay. And it creates
a couple of very interesting
scenarios. One is while we
don't have customers that actually
look at the code, we
will have customers that say,
Oh, I need this XML
to change. And they will
just go and actually change
the approval file. And literally
like put a story into
our backlog directly. We're like,
Oh, it's failing here. I
need to fix this. And
they can also do that
with drawing. We can serialize
strings, but we can serialize
images or sound files or
anything really. And so, yeah.
Well let's say let's put
a pin on that cause
I want to talk about
that. Cause that's a really
interesting thing. We'll talk about
serializing, non textual based things
in just a moment. So
if I have 500 of
these and they're, they're now
sourced, they are artifacts, source
artifacts. I might have a
business person on the team
who doesn't know code, but
he can open a text
file. You're saying he's going
to go poking around in
there now if he wants
to potentially, If he wants
to. And I mean, so
this is a limited case,
right? But yeah, if they
are saying so if the,
the closer the test is
to an acceptance test where
you're speaking in the language
of the user, the more
chances of that happening, but
we allow you to verify
anything. And just because you
can speak at the big
level, doesn't mean you always
should. I want to be
clear. I think you should
speak at the customer level
a lot, but a lot
of times, as you go
in, you need to speak
more in a program. If
I had an existing system
with, you know, X unit
or, and unit or ms.
Test for my low-level unit
testing, I've got an existing
integration testing framework. I've got
maybe spec flow or something
like that, where I'm doing
my specification testing. Am I
pretty much done? Or do
I still need approval test
to, to, to fill a
gap that I may not
realize I have Test is
a place that can aid
all of those. And so
if you're doing your unit
test in X unit and
you have a dictionary that
you want to verify, this
will help you to do
that. If you're doing an
integration test and you have
a webpage that you want
to verify, this can help
you do that. It's it's
not what level are you
at? It's at any level
where just a simple integer
or string is no longer
sufficient to do the verification.
Okay. Playing devil's advocate then
how is this not just
different text files? So to
some extent it is just
thing, text files, you could
write, you know, a poor
man's approval test that just
says, here's how I figure
out the file name. And
here's how I write the
file. And here's how I
define it. And that's really
all we're doing. We are
just wrapping that around. When
you say approvals are verify,
the first thing it does
is it says, what's the
file name that I'm going
to need and where's that
location going to be? And
then it says, how do
I serialize this information to
that file? And then it
says, let me compare it.
And then finally it says,
if it doesn't compare, let
me launch something to help
you. That's really all it's
doing. It is just comparing
files. It's just taking the
redundancy and the duplication of
that away from you. Okay.
And then it sounds like
adding a series of opportunities
to plug in things like
serializers to plug in strategies.
If I don't like my
500 text files sitting in
the root of my director,
I'm suppose I could tell
you to put them somewhere
else. Absolutely. And in fact,
when we do stuff like
with node and other languages,
we'll put them into databases
where we might not have
access to a file system.
So this means this isn't
just for.net. No, I am
a large believer in pair
programming. And so we have
this in Java. We have
it in Ruby. We have
it in PHP. We have
it in Pearl. We have
an, a node and we
have it in.net. Now you're
just showing off I am.
Okay. Well that answers the
question of how is this
not just doing textbook. This
is where a utility function
to compare text files, which
someone could dismiss this as
has now become a framework
and a style for conventions
and a style of developing
tests. Exactly. And you know,
it's a tool to help
you. I still use asserts
and there are still times
when just a simple verification
of a number or a
Boolean is appropriate, but there's
a lot of places where
I want to verify something
rich. Then, then that is
another important point because you're
telling me that approval test
doesn't take over my test.
It doesn't demand that I
do things a certain way.
If I've got a search
that works, Oh yeah, you
can put them right alongside.
Okay. Can I only verify
one thing per test? Cause
I saw that there's a
file that's created. What if
I want to verify multiple
things? Is that a limitation
of a pool test or
am I testing wrong? So
you can verify more than
one thing by default. You
only can verify one thing
because it will take the
name of your test, others,
a name or factory. So
you can do things like
put steps in if you
need to, or if you
have something that's very machine
specific right. Or operating system
is going to verify one
way on windows seven and
another way on windows eight
or We're one way under
motto and one way under
that. Exactly. That would be
a really useful. And so,
so we do have that
facility most of the time
though, it's one approval per
unit test. And while an
approval is definitely richer than,
than an assert, it does
uphold to the idea of
verifying one thing for your
test. Okay. Which is kind
of the point of testing.
Yes. It's a good principle
to hold to these Quarters
though, that you talked about,
these attributes can be added
on by default, we are
deferring text files, but then
you said something about diffing
sound files and graphics. Talk
to me about that. Yeah.
Yeah. So I do a
lot of work in.net and
I'm a huge fan of
C sharp. And that means
working with a lot of
Microsoft technologies and that can
sometimes be difficult to test
because they weren't always invented
with testing in mind. And
so as I have moved
across and gone to different
technologies, I've been able to
find patterns of how to
test them. And the nice
thing about approval tests is
you can encode that pattern
into just an API call.
And so if I'm testing
a wind farm, then I
just want to pull that
up and I want to
see the form. And so
I just say approval or
when form approvals dot verify,
and I pass it, the
wind form, it'll take a
screen capture of that. And
now I don't want to
see it in a text
different, but I will want
to see it in an
image diff. And so it
knows that this is an
image and we'll use a
different set on its reporters
and open something like torta
Gemma's diff or beyond compare
and show me those images
and let me compare them
that way. And that's really
helpful. And you can do
that with WPF on, you
can do that with wind
WinForms. You can do it
with our DLC reports, which
is a very hard thing
to test out. So if
you want to do reporting
inside of your wind forums,
there's a reporting package from
Microsoft called RDC reports, and
this will test them with
no problem. You just give
it there and make a
really fake dataset. And in
fact, there's even utilities in
it to make a fake
dataset, Totally brainstorming random tangent.
What if I'm doing dethrone,
JavaScript, charting in a browser.
And I want to verify
that I know I can
do selenium and I can
verify the Dom, but what
if I want to verify
that it looks right. Exactly.
And I take a screenshot
of that somehow with this
tool. So by default, what
it will actually do is
it will capture the HTML,
not rendered as a screenshot
and it'll take that HTML
and then it will launch
it to you in a
browser, which will render it
for you. You'll see it.
You'll be like, Hey, that's
nice. And you'll verify the
HTML the next time it
runs, it won't render it
all. But if the HTML
ever changes, it will launch
it in the browsers and
you can see what changes
it is actually possible to
capture it as a screenshot,
but that's a lot of
work and usually not necessary.
So we try to go
to what's as far as
you need to go to
make it practical. Okay. So
if I were generating dynamically
a PNG of a pie
chart, that might be an
appropriate thing. Absolutely appropriate. Okay.
But an example of a
Dominic population, that's where you're
getting really close to customer
acceptance testing and you can't
automate all of it. Yeah.
And the manipulation of the
Dom is the doing of
the test approval test. Really
doesn't give you much for
the doing, it gives you
for the verification after like
in the JavaScript side, after
you manipulate that on. Now,
if you want to say,
what does my Dom look
like? You can do that.
And you can do that
through Simeon as well. Just
say, verify the Dom and
it will print out the
Dom structure for you. Now
you said reporters. I think
I was looking at the
code and I saw something
called a clipboard report. Yes.
What is that? So every
different diff tool has some
different way of slightly modifying
things. It seems when they
want to, they'll either trim
off the last tailing space
or they'll switch out your
returns or they just do
stuff. And so every once
in a while, you'll get
to a place where it's,
even though you move it
over, it's actually not making
an exact copy. So there's
always the thing of just
going to the command line
and typing in manually, you
know, move this file over
to this file. But then
you have to remember how
to do that on the
command line, the clipboard reporter
generates that command and puts
it on your clipboard. So
if you use a clipboard
reporter, you can just drop
to your command line and
paste and it will approve
the file for you that
way. And it will do
it. You can do it
in combinations of other reporters
as well, but you don't
always want to mess up
your clipboard. So we don't
do it unless you ask
for it. And these are,
these reporters are then presented
as attributes that I then
decorate on my, my test
class. Exactly. What are some
other reporters that I might
make? Or what are some
interesting third-party kind of reporters
you've seen in the wall?
So the diff reporter is
a real common one and
that's actually, it uses change
the responsibility. So it will
go and say, do I
have a reporter code compare?
I think is the first
one. Oh, you don't have
that. Okay. Well, do you
have beyond comparable? You don't
have that. Well, do you
have tortoise diff we don't
have that G of wind
diff and it will keep
going until it finds the
first one you have and
we'll bring it up there.
There's one for the, the
web config or the app
config file where you can
configure in your app config.
So if you want to
have different reporters by default
and a teammate has, there's
lots of combination reporters where
you can say, use this
reporter and this report. So
open a web browser and
open a diff tool. The
file launch reporters are really
interesting when people start going
into different tools. So when
something fails, you want to
understand why it failed and
the richer, your object is
maybe the more you need
to understand that. And so
people always sort of say,
Oh, I wish I had
it opened here. Right? And
so if you wanted that
opened in a tool, you
just extend a very simple
interface and say, I'm going
to pass you the receive
file and the profile. And
you do whatever you want,
launch, whatever program you want.
That's what people usually do
to say, I want this
tool that, that I had
not thought of. You know,
one thing that, that you're
getting me thinking about that
I hadn't thought about before
is I'm hearing you say
that there are a number
of times when your tool
will open up the thing
that I'm going to need,
or another way of phrasing.
It would be the thing
I was going to open
anyway. Exactly. And, and part
of like my, my, my
unit testing lizard brain is
like, that's not what unit
tests you're supposed to do.
You're not supposed to be
launching stuff. I keep going
back to like headless, headless,
headless. This thing needs to
run on the build server.
But at the same time
when I'm writing the test
and I'm in visual studio
and I'm goofing around, there's
this unconscious action where it's
like, Oh, the test failed
all tab over to the
console type in notepad, duh,
dig around on the XML
file. You're saying that your
testing framework recognizes that there
is a time when you
are getting ready to write
tests and you're actively debugging
tests and you're saving me
those tedious lizard brain actions.
There are different personalities that
you put on when you
are, when something has never
worked. I want different information
from my tests then when
it is working and I
want different information yet again,
when it used to be
working and then it stopped,
these are different. That just
blew my mind. Like there's
different information when it's never
actually worked. That's when I
spend the most time slapping
the keyboard open and diff
tools, copy paste and stuff
into paint.net, you know, all
those kinds of things. And
you're saying paint dot, and
that's what I need to
open that I write a
little interface and it launches
paint.net. And I can remove
that later when I switch
over into end crunch or
whatever is going to be
doing that work for me.
Yeah. And one of the
reasons I love writing tests
is because they helped me
get my idea quicker into
the world. And it's that
sort of example, that's really
servicing me. And in fact,
when I am writing my
own tests, the example services
meet to focus my ideas
on what it is I
want to write and help
me actually write it. And
so an example is really
useful. And a lot of
times when I sit down
with people who are interested
in testing, but haven't gotten
to testing yet, I find
that they're going directly to
the code and trying to
write a test and they've
actually skipped that step. So
if you have people out
there who are listening, who
are like, Oh, I've always
thought about testing. Maybe this
is the place to start.
I would suggest write an
example on paper, get away
from the keyboard, write it
on paper. This is what
my, I want my example
to do. And then see
if you can write that
as a unit test. And
maybe you can, maybe you
can't, but if you keep
doing that, you'll find more
and more often that you
can. And that's where you
really sort of walk your
way into testing. My biggest
struggle with testing is probably
the way I'm writing my
code, where it's just too
tied up into reality. Well,
I feel tested very abstract.
And then if I struggle
and go off and try
to write these tests, I
end up writing tests that
don't really do anything. They
just kind of move bits
around, but nothing really gets
tested. Like, for example, I'm
writing this windows phone app
right now. It goes out
to a data feed and
it gets the data feed,
it, parses the data feed,
and then it gets an
MP3 and then it plays
the MP3. So unless it's
running in the phone, actually
going the internet, actually playing
the thing, all I can
really write a test around
is the parsing. Yeah. And,
and that's always a struggle
with testing is figuring out
what do I want to
test? And what do I
not want to test? One
of the things that guides
me is the same test
until board. So this is
something you're going to do
anyways, because once you get
bored, you'll have to stop
doing it. And you'll no
longer be bored, but find
the pieces that give you
a good return on investment
and test those and the
pieces that aren't let them
go. And if you turned
out you're wrong, you're going
to get an iteration. When
your customers complain about bugs
and then maybe you'll be
a little less bored. And
so let that be your
guide. You don't have to
test everything. And if you
try to test everything, you'll
fail because there's just too
many things test until bored.
When you're bored. Stop. I
love that test until board.
So I'm Llewellyn Falco. Where
can people go online to
find approval test and learn
more about it. So to
add it to your project,
just go to new, get,
and that's if nominal thing
that has occurred in the
last two years in the.net
world is new get, has
really made it just so
much easier to find and
use tools. So go to
new, get, and just type
in approval tests, all one
word. If you want to
learn more about it, I
suggest go to approval tests
that come watch the videos.
You can find them on
YouTube as well. You can
also find them. We recently
moved everything over to get
hub. And so if you
go to get hub, look
for approvals too. So get
hubs slash approvals is the
foundation and all the languages
are there. All the languages
are in get hub, except
for Java. Java is still
in the process of being
moved over. Very cool. Well,
I appreciate you chatting with
me today. It's been great
to be here. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and we'll see you
again next week. .